---
layout: post
title: 'Esquites (Mexican Corn Salad)'
date: 2023-12-23
image:
categories: Mexican
permalink: /recipes/esquites.html
---

I love elote, but fresh corn on the cob is only available for a few months each summer, and it’s a pain to eat. This deconstructed version is much easier to eat, is just as tasty, and I can make it in the winter.

### Ingredients

- Juice of 2 limes
- 3 tablespoons sour cream
- 1 tablespoon mayonnaise
- 1 fresh jalapeño, seeded, halved, and sliced thin
- 2 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon vegetable oil
- 1 package frozen corn kernels (32 ounces), thawed
- Salt
- 2 cloves garlic, minced
- 1/2 teaspoon chili powder
- 1/2 teaspoon chipotle powder
- 4 ounces cotija cheese, crumbled
- 3/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro leaves
- 3 scallions, sliced thin

### Directions

1. Whisk together 3 tablespoons lime juice, sour cream, and mayonnaise in large bowl. Stir in jalapeño and set aside.
2. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add half of corn spread into even layer, and sprinkle with 1/4 teaspoon salt. Cover and cook, without stirring, until corn touching skillet is charred, about 3 minutes. Remove skillet from heat and let stand, covered, for 15 seconds, until popping subsides. Transfer to bowl with lime juice mixture. Repeat with 1 tablespoon oil, remaining corn, and another 1/4 teaspoon salt.
3. Return empty skillet to medium heat, add remaining 1 teaspoon oil, garlic, chili powder, and chipotle powder and cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Transfer to bowl with corn and toss to combine. Let cool for at least 15 minutes.
4. Add cotija, cilantro, and scallions to bowl with corn and toss to combine. Season with salt and additional lime juice to taste. Serve.
